# DS3001-Final-Project
DS 3001 Final Project: The Evolution of Taylor Swift

Taylor Swift is an American pop and country music singer-songwriter. She is one of the most successful and well-known artists today. Taylor’s self-titled debut album was released in 2006 and she has since released 8 other albums as well as the re-recordings of two albums, Red and Fearless. She has also released numerous singles, accumulating 206 songs. Taylor Swift has been creating music for over 15 years, so her writing style and music genres have changed from when she first began as an artist. We thought it would be interesting to use data science methods to analyze how Taylor Swift has evolved as an artist across her albums. Our main question is: How has Taylor Swift’s writing style and music evolved over time in the course of her career? In order to explore this, we plan to use clustering and text mining to analyze different aspects of her songs. We will use data from Spotify, found on Spotify's web api. This data contains audio features of songs that we will use to draw conclusions about Taylor Swift’s music. We then want to do some text analysis on the lyrics of her songs. We think it will be interesting to see the sentiment analysis of Taylor’s lyrics for the different albums as some of them have different themes. We also want to see what specific words are very common among her lyrics across her different albums. 

To fully capture Taylor's evolution we wanted to consider both quantitative (audio features) and qualitative (natural language processing) aspects of her work. We hypothesized that we would see a progression in both her technical sound and the content of her songs as she pivoted from being a more acoustic, country artist to more of a pop artist.
